We'll come back in this video we are going to look into lists and lists allow us to create a variable
which contains multiple variables or values within itself.
And that is a very important and handy tool that we're going to use quite a lot throughout the course
and in general when programming.
And imagine you work at a university and now your job is to create a program which contains all the
students.
Then you could go ahead and do something at that student one is going to be next 10 students.
Two is going to be Monica.
Then you have two then three which is Eric and STUDENT 4 which this friend says can and all of those
are German writings so names and you can of course go ahead and do that.
But as you can see there was plenty of typing and that's not a very efficient way.
There is a more efficient way and that is to create a a list so you can go ahead and create a list called
students and in there you can use square brackets in order to create the entries.
So I can create Max in there.
Then after the comma I have Monica again in quotation marks because they are strings.
So we have Max has a string Monika's a string.
Eric has a string and so forth.
So now I do the same here.
Eric and Francis Carr as you can see what I had done within four lines before I can now do within one
line.
Now you might wonder how do I access those people.
So how do they access somebody within that list.
Well first of all let's just print out that student.
So let's print out students and for now we're just printing out all of them.
As you can see we get this statement here telling us OK this is a list.
Why do we know that.
Well we know that because we have these square brackets starting and ending brackets and within we have
strings.
And how do you know that.
Well this apostrophe So the apostrophe is telling us that these are strings within our list.
Now can of course go ahead and create a list of numbers as well.
So we can go ahead and say create a list with marks where we have the marks of our students for 3 to
1 or we could also say these are general marks that are available within our grading system or something
like that.
So you might wonder how do I access Mock's how to access Monica and so forth.
Because before that was easy I could just say print Student 1 and that would be Max.
But now what if I want to have Max within the list of students.
Then there is a different approach.
You simply go ahead and state something like students and then you use square brackets and the index
of the value that you want to have.
So in our case I want to have Max and Max is at the first position and as programming languages start
counting with zero Max is at the zeroth position.
So we need to enter zero here in order to get max.
So let me show you that that's true and you are students 0 is Max.
Now go ahead and try to get Eric on your screen to be printed out.
All right.
I hope you try it.
You could just say something like students square brackets and to y2 because Eric is at the third position
but from a programming point of view that's the second order to position.
So we enter two in here.
So that's why we get Eric here and the same goes from Francisco she's going to be third or third the
third index or three index pretty much.
So that's something that you have to be very careful about because realist's always start counting with
zero.
In general programming languages do so.
All right so now what if I want to write something like Max and Francisco that I can go ahead and do
that.
Students at the position zero or index 0 and or plus And and this and is going to be within quotation
marks because we're working with a string here right.
The student at the zero position is Max or zeros Max and Francisco is also a string.
So Max and Francisco are strings in here.
That's why I need to use strings.
And then I use concatenation in order to print out in one bigger string.
So this whole statement here is a string now.
So they saying something like Max and Francisco.
So now that's printed out.
And there we are Max and Francisco if you want to know the length of the string or the list that you
have if you want to know how many entries are within the list you can use the len method method or function.
So we can go ahead and say something and then as we had with Esti are creating a string out of a value
this line gives you the length of a list.
So I can just say it's too dense and what we get here is for as we have four entries within our students
list.
Now you might say all right that's great and all but how do I add something to my students I don't want
to always go back and add something at the declaration here in this line.
I want to be able to add an entry at any point in my program.
Well that's quite easy.
You can go ahead and use the append function.
The append function allows us to append or add somebody to OR SOMETHING TO A LIST.
And in this case we're talking about strings so it makes sense to add a string in here as well.
So let's say we have more it's also a German name again and we can add him to the list.
Now let's check it out.
We have added more ID's to the screen or to our program.
Now let's go ahead and run this method again.
This students learn method or function again.
There we are.
Now we have five people in there.
So we know where I want to know who is in that student's list we can simply print it out.
So print students and we see where Max Monica Eric Francisca and Moritz.
Now let's go back to numbers quickly because we had this marks a list which contained four three two
and one.
And let's say these are the marks of our our group.
And now let's add a number.
We're on a mark to our Maurits.
So let's just assume that the first entry year this index zero which contains the value for is associated
with Max the 3s associated Monica two with Eric and one with Francisca.
Then our Maurits will get a 2 let's say.
So let's spend that now let's say we would like to get the average marks of our students and we can
go ahead and do the following.
We can just say print marks and here we need another bracket.
Mark's position zero plus marks position 1 plus marks had position 2 marks and position three.
And you might already say Amen that's boring entering all of that all the time manually and stuff like
that.
No worries.
We're going to learn approaches which make this code here a lot shorter and a lot easier to type.
That's going to happen as soon as we get to that one of the next chapters.
So now I would like to divide that because I want to have the average and then need to divide divided
by the amount of values that I have here.
I could of course say all right I'm going to divide it by five because that's the amount of values I
have.
But I can also say I'm going to divide it by the amount of marks that we have within our list.
And now you can try yourself.
What would you need to enter here.
All right I hope you've figured it out.
It's Len it's the Lenn function.
So I'm going to say Lenn marks what that's going to give me is five.
Because within my marks I have 5 entries and in order to make sure that that is true I can go ahead
and well I executed that I can add another cell in here so I'm going to press the plus button and I'm
going to say something like learn or actually print learn marks and now you are it's five.
So now you see we divided five values by five.
And that gave us the value of two point four.
So the average mark is two point four.
All right.
So I'd say that's a great start into lists and in the next video or actually in the next lecture there's
a little quiz waiting for you.
And if you've figured it out and managed to go through quiz easily then you can skip the following lecture
and go to the pop function straightaway and otherwise of course check out the solution.
All right so see you in the next video.